Add frontend stack template (#1047)
casper-network/docs: source/docs/casper/developers/dapps/template-frontend.md

## Get Started

Begin by opening a terminal and running:

```bash
node -v
```

To get your Node.js version.

To ensure compatibility, you should be running Node.js version 18 or above. If you are running an earlier version, upgrade to version 18 using the [Node Version Manager](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or another tool.

Using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), create a new Vite project by running:

```bash
npm create vite@latest
```

Name your project, select "React", then choose JavaScript or TypeScript.

Head into your new project directory:

```bash
cd vite-project/
```

replacing `vite-project` with your project name.

Run

```bash
npm install
vite dev
```

to test the server.

Quit the server by pressing `q`. Install the Casper JS SDK by running:

```bash
npm install casper-js-sdk
```

This guide will use [axios](https://axios-http.com/) to communicate with the backend, install it by running:

```bash
npm install axios
```

> ## Casper Signer Integration

Reviewer: I'll update this, but IMO this task should be defined in a new issue.

  return <button onClick={ () => connectToSigner(props) }>Connect Signer</button>;
}

export default Connect;
```

Notice that `Connect` accepts props, and forwards them to the `connectToSigner` function described below. This function is called when the button is clicked, and allows it to set the public key within *src/App.js* using `props.setPublicKey()`.

Write the `connectToSigner` function under the `Connect` function component:

```javascript
function connectToSigner(props) {
	Signer.isConnected().then(connected => {
		if (!connected) {
			Signer.sendConnectionRequest();
		} else {
			Signer.getActivePublicKey()
			.then(publicKey => {
				props.setPublicKey(publicKey);
			})
			.catch(error => {
				alert(error.message);
			});
		}
	})
	.catch(error => {
		alert(error.message);
	});
}
```

The `connectToSigner()` function calls `Signer.isConnected()` to check if the Signer is already connected. If it is, it gets the public key of the selected account, if it's not, it opens up a connection request within the Signer. `Signer.isConnected()` will throw an error if the Signer is not installed as an extension or if the Signer is locked.

## Call a Smart Contract

> For this example we'll be calling a hypothetical "hello world" contract that contains a single entrypoint "update_message". We'll call the "update_message" entrypoint with text entered by the user in an HTML `input` field.

Reviewer: In the documentation it is often referred to as "Entrypoint", however at other times "Entry point". Currently very ambiguous. We should open an issue to standardize this.

When calling smart contracts from React, you'll need to implement the logic within a function accessible from a React component. You can obtain user-entered data from the DOM using elements like `input`, then grab the value within the smart-contract-calling function.

Create a new component:

```bash
touch src/UpdateMessage.js
```

Open the file and write:

```jsx
import { Contracts, CasperClient, RuntimeArgs, CLValueBuilder, DeployUtil, Signer } from "casper-js-sdk";
import axios from "axios";

function UpdateMessage(props) {
  return (
		<>
			<input id="message" type="text">
 			<button onClick={ () => updateMessage(props) }>Update Message</button>
		</>
	);
}

export default UpdateMessage;
```

> On the front-end you'll need to build the transaction and forward it to the Casper Signer to be signed. In most cases you will be calling smart contract entrypoints. This example deploy shows the calling of entrypoint "update_message" which will update the state of the chain to reflect the new data. You'll need the user's active public key to prepare the deploy, and you may retrieve this from the `publicKey` variable passed in as a prop from `src/App.js`. Write this function under your `UpdateMessage` component function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the front-end you'll need to build the transaction and forward it to the Casper Signer to be signed. In most cases you will be calling smart contract entry points. This example deploy shows the calling of entry point "update_message" which will update the state of the chain to reflect the new data. You'll need the user's active public key to prepare the deploy, and you may retrieve this from the `publicKey` variable passed in as a prop from `src/App.js`. Write this function under your `UpdateMessage` component function.
```

Reviewer: In the documentation it is often referred to as "Entrypoint", however at other times "Entry point". Currently very ambiguous. We should open an issue to standardize this.

			console.error(error.message);
		});
	}).catch((error) => {
		console.error(error.message);
	});
}
```

In this example, `updateMessage` builds a deploy and forwards it to the Casper Signer to be signed by the user. Once it's been signed, `signedDeploy` is forwarded to the backend at the `/sendDeploy` endpoint using `axios.post` before being sent off to a Casper node. If an error occurs, or the user rejects the signature request, it will be logged to `stderr`. In this particular example, the result of this deployment will be presented to the user in the form of a JavaScript [alert](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/alert), however you may do with the response data as you please.

Now that this component is created, render it to the user interface in *src/App.js*, passing along the `publicKey` as a prop:

```jsx
import React from "react";
import Connect from "./Connect";
import UpdateMessage from "./UpdateMessage";

function App() {
	const [publicKey, setPublicKey] = React.useState(null);
	return (
		<>
			<Connect setPublicKey={ setPublicKey } />
			<UpdateMessage publicKey={ publicKey } />
		</>
	);
}
```

  ## Query a Smart Contract

> Consider that the message written to the chain during the `update_message` entrypoint invocation is stored in the [dictionary](../../concepts/glossary/D.md#dictionary) `messages` in the contract. Further consider that each account may write their own message, and that the messages are stored under the account's [account hash](../../concepts/glossary/A.md#account-hash) as the dictionary key. Querying this kind of data is important in any dApp, here is how to communicate contract data to and from the front-end.

Reviewer: In the documentation it is often referred to as "Entrypoint", however at other times "Entry point". Currently very ambiguous. We should open an issue to standardize this.

## Get Started

Begin by opening a terminal and running:

```bash
node -v
```

To get your Node.js version.

To ensure compatibility, you should be running Node.js version 18 or above. If you are running an earlier version, upgrade to version 18 using the [Node Version Manager](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or another tool.

Using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), create a new Vite project by running:

```bash
npm install -g vite
npm create vite@latest
```

Name your project, select "React", then choose JavaScript or TypeScript.

Head into your new project directory, replacing `vite-project` with your project name:

```bash
cd vite-project/
```

Run the following command to test the server:

```bash
npm install
vite dev
```

Quit the server by pressing `q`. Install the Casper JS SDK by running:

```bash
npm install casper-js-sdk
```

This guide will use [axios](https://axios-http.com/) to communicate with the backend, install it by running:

```bash
npm install axios
```

## Casper Wallet Integration

> At present, the Casper Wallet extension content script injects the SDK into your website's global scope. You can access the provider class and event types as follows:

Reviewer: "At present" is used because soon it will be preferred to use the npm package in React when it is released.

> ```javascript

Author: This section got improved - https://github.com/casper-network/docs/pull/1047/commits/f5ede8d7a3effd899d6d31628da24d927e919207.

const CasperWalletProvider = window.CasperWalletProvider;
const CasperWalletEventTypes = window.CasperWalletEventTypes;
```

If the value of these variables is `undefined` the Casper Wallet is not installed.

Instantiate a new `CasperWalletProvider`:

```javascript
const provider = CasperWalletProvider();
```

> You can provide define your own timeout period in milliseconds (default: 30 minutes) by specifying `CasperWalletProviderOptions`.

Author: This section was updated, now timeout is part of code.

```javascript
const provider = CasperWalletProvider({timeout: 10000000});
```

> To ensure that a user's public key will be available to all necessary components, create a React state variable in *src/App.js* or another parent component that encapsulates the components you'd like the public key to be available to:

Author: I copied this suggestion: https://github.com/casper-network/docs/pull/1047/files#r1215314635.

```jsx
import React from "react";
import Connect from "./Connect";

function App() {
	const [publicKey, setPublicKey] = React.useState(null);
	return (
		<>
			<Connect setPublicKey={ setPublicKey } />
		</>
	);
}

export default App;
```

> This is an example of *src/App.js* that imports and displays the `Connect` component that is described next. The `setPublicKey` function is passed to the `Connect` component as a [prop](https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html) so that it may set the public key and make it available to all of *src/App.js*. This way when more components are added to *src/App.js*, they may utilize the `publicKey` variable.

Author: Nope, `src/App.jsx` is automatically created by Vite.

To request that the Casper Wallet disconnect from a website, add the following function call to *src/Connect.js*:

```javascript
function disconnect(props) {
	provider.disconnectFromSite().then(disconnected => {
    if (disconnected) {
      props.setPublicKey(publicKey);
      alert("Disconnected");
    } 
  }).catch(error => {
    alert(error.message);
  });
}
```

Then connect it to a button:

```jsx
function Connect(props) {
    return (
      <>
      	<button onClick={ () => connectToWallet(props) }>Connect Signer</button>;
      	<button onClick={ () => disconnect(props) }>Disconnect</button>;
      </>
    );
}
```

## Call a Smart Contract

For this example we'll be calling a hypothetical "hello world" contract that contains a single entrypoint "update_message". We'll call the "update_message" entrypoint with text entered by the user in an HTML `input` field.

When calling smart contracts from React, you'll need to implement the logic within a function accessible from a React component. You can obtain user-entered data from the DOM using elements like `input`, then grab the value within the smart-contract-calling function.

Create a new component:

```bash

> touch src/UpdateMessage.js

Author: For every React component `.jsx` should be used - fixed in https://github.com/casper-network/docs/pull/1047/commits/2d9360f4bfe58dcc8de5426ba2f8295c999ebb4a.

To connect to the Casper Wallet within your React app, create the `Connect` component and import the `getProvider` helper.

```bash
touch src/Connect.jsx
```

Open the file and write:

```jsx
import { getProvider } from "./casper-wallet";

const provider = getProvider();

function Connect(props) {
    return (
        <>
            <button onClick={ () => connectToWallet(props) }>Connect Wallet</button>
            {/* Place for disconnect button */}
        </>
    );
}

export default Connect;
```

Notice that `Connect` accepts props, and forwards them to the `connectToWallet` function described below. This function is called when the button is clicked, allowing it to set the public key within *src/App.jsx* using `props.setPublicKey()`.

Write the `connectToWallet` function under the `Connect` function component:

```javascript

> function connectToWallet(props) {

Reviewer 3: I would just change to arrow fn for consistency

    provider.requestConnection().then(connected => {
        if (!connected) {
            alert("Couldn't connect to wallet");
        } else {
            provider.getActivePublicKey().then(publicKey => {
                props.setPublicKey(publicKey);
            }).catch(error => {
                alert(error.message);
            });
        }
    })
    .catch(error => {
        alert(error.message);
    });
}
```

The `connectToWallet()` function calls `provider.isConnected()` to check if the Casper Wallet is already connected. If it is, it gets the public key of the selected account; if it's not, it opens up a connection request within the Wallet. `provider.isConnected()` will throw an error if the Wallet is not installed as an extension or if it is locked.

### Disconnect the Casper Wallet

To request that the Casper Wallet disconnect from a website, add the following function call to *src/Connect.jsx*:

```javascript

> function disconnect(props) {

Reviewer 3: same

    provider.disconnectFromSite().then(disconnected => {
        if (disconnected) {
            props.setPublicKey(null);
            alert("Disconnected");
        } 
    }).catch(error => {
        alert(error.message);
    });
}
```

Then connect it to a button:

```jsx

> function Connect(props) {

Reviewer 3: same

    return (
        <>
            <button onClick={ () => connectToWallet(props) }>Connect Wallet</button>
            // highlight-next-line-green
            <button onClick={ () => disconnect(props) }>Disconnect</button>
        </>
    );
}
```

## Call a Smart Contract

For this example, we'll call a hypothetical "hello world" contract containing a single entrypoint "update_message". We'll call the "update_message" entrypoint with text entered by the user in an HTML `input` field.

When calling smart contracts from React, you'll need to implement the logic within a function accessible from a React component. You can obtain user-entered data from the DOM using elements like `input`, then grab the value within the smart-contract-calling function.

Create a new component:

```bash
touch src/UpdateMessage.jsx
```

Open the file and write:

```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import { Contracts, CasperClient, RuntimeArgs, CLValueBuilder, CLPublicKey, DeployUtil } from "casper-js-sdk";
import axios from "axios";
import { getProvider } from "./casper-wallet";

const provider = getProvider();

> function UpdateMessage(props) {

Reviewer 3: same

    const [message, setMessage] = useState("");

    return (
        <>
            <input id="message" type="text" value={message} onChange={(e) => {setMessage(e.target.value)}} />
            <button onClick={ () => updateMessage(props, message) }>Update Message</button>
        </>
    );
}

export default UpdateMessage;
```

On the front-end you'll need to build the deploy and forward it to the Casper Wallet to be signed. In most cases, you will be calling smart contract entrypoints. This example deploy shows the calling of entrypoint "update_message" which will update the chain's global state to reflect the new data. You'll need the user's active public key to prepare the deploy, and you may retrieve this from the `publicKey` variable passed in as a prop from `src/App.jsx`. Write this function under your `UpdateMessage` component function.

```javascript
const NODE_URL = "http://65.108.127.242:7777/rpc";
const NETWORK_NAME = "casper-test"; // "casper" for mainnet
const CONTRACT_HASH = "hash-75143aa708275b7dead20ac2cc06c1c3eccff4ffcf1eb9aebb8cce7c35cea041";

> function updateMessage(props, message) {

Reviewer 3: same

```bash
npm install axios
```

## Casper Wallet Integration

At present, the Casper Wallet extension content script injects the SDK into your website's global scope. Provider class and event types can be accessed with `window.CasperWalletProvider` and `window.CasperWalletEventTypes`. If the value of these variables is `undefined` the Casper Wallet is not installed.

We will start with helper for getting provider instance:

```bash
touch src/casper-wallet.js
```

Fill the file with the following content:

```js
// Timeout (in ms) for requests to the extension [DEFAULT: 30 min]
const REQUESTS_TIMEOUT_MS = 30 * 60 * 1000;

export const getProvider = () => {
    let providerConstructor = window.CasperWalletProvider;
    if (providerConstructor === undefined) {
        alert("Casper Wallet extension is not installed!");
        return;
    }
    let provider = providerConstructor({
        timeout: REQUESTS_TIMEOUT_MS
    });
    return provider;
}

```

:::tip

For complete integration details refer to [README of Casper Wallet SDK](https://github.com/make-software/casper-wallet-sdk/#readme).

:::

> To ensure that a user's public key will be available to all necessary components, create a React state variable in *src/App.jsx* or another parent component that encapsulates the components you'd like the public key to be available to:

Author: This is @ipopescu's suggestion from the previous page version:

```suggestion
To ensure that a user's public key will be available to all necessary components, create a React state variable in *src/App.jsx* or another parent component that encapsulates the components where you'd like the public key to be available:
```

Reviewer 4: I'll submit a Grammarly pass instead.
